Welcome back. In the previous step, we retrieved all the posts for a user. In this step,
let's create the operation - that's the post operation - to enable creating the post for a user.
Let's get started.
I'm copying the post method that we created for user.
So the URI to be mapped is Id slash posts.
So we would want to post for a specific user.
And that's where we would say user slash Id slash post.
The post belongs to a user.
So whenever we are creating a post we need to know which user you are creating the post for.
So that's cool.
I would copy the path variable Id from here. Let's do that quickly.
This is not create user anymore.
This is create post.
So let’s change that as well.
First, I would need to retrieve the user.
What I'll do is user dot repository, find by Id.
Actually we have done that in here already.
Right?
So let's take that.
I would also need to throw an exception, So this is good code to start with.
I’ll copied it in here.
So what we are doing now is we are doing a find by Id, getting the user optional. If it's not present
we would still throw a user not found exception because I'm trying to do a post for a specific user but that
user itself does not exist.
We should not let them do the post.
So that's cool.
The other thing I would want now is the content of the posts.
What should I really post? That post post.
So we get the content of the post in here and I’d a request body annotation as well. So we would get
the content of the post coming in as part the request body. Over here the user is present. So now user
optional dot get. I would take it into a new variable area called user. So that's cool.
So I have the user variable right now.
What I want to do is now I would want to add a post for this specific user. For this user I would
want to create a new post.
How do I do that?
One of the important things is now we’d need to create a new repository. Create a new post what we would
need to use is something called a post repository.
So let's copy the user repository and create something called post repository because we would
want to manage the posts in here.
The important thing this should manage a post not a user.
So I'm going to save this. I'm going to also need a post repository in the user JPA resource,
Right? Over here, I’ll create a post repository instances. Post repository post repository and
at autowired. And I got the user. I have post. One of the things I would need to do is map the user to the post
So post set user. The user which is retrieved from the database.
And then I can use the post repository. Post repository dot save the post.
It should save the post to the database and I would now need to append Id but not the Id of the user
Now I would need to append the id of the post to URI.
And I am returning the created location back.
Actually, this was really simple, right?
All that we had to do to create a post was - we fetched the user. So we took the user
we checked if he is there. If he is not there then we would want to throw an exception because we don't
want to allow to create a post for a user who is not there.
Next, we got the user. We set the user into the post and we are saving the post to the database.
The post is saved. What I'm doing is, once the post is save, I'm getting the path of the post so that I
can actually return the location of the created psot. So we need to return the URI. The resource URL
for the created location.
That's one of the best practices in REST, right? So that's what we did.
Now, let's see what would happen.
I would go to the earlier request that we sent. So we would want to create a new thing ten thousand ten.
post and in the body I'd want to put the new post that we would want to create.
I’d want to create a simple post, right? So all that I’d need to say is description, right?
So that's the attribute name that we use in the post. In the post
the thing is description. description my third post.
Because that's the third post for ten thousand ten and I am firing the request.
So the important things are raw json.
I think once you have them set you should be good.
And now I get a response back saying 404 not found. The mistake is ten thousand ten, it should be actually
ten thousand one. We were using this Id for playing around with the request which was not found.
So we have tested the negative scenario first. So 404 for ten thousand ten. That’s cool.
I'm trying to create the resource for ten thousand one Id.
The ten thousand one Id is mapped to AB.
So I am trying to create a new post for AB again.
It returned a status of two hundred and one, created.
That's pretty cool.
Let's see if it's created in the database.
And we want to select the post and there is my third post which is present in here. That’s very cool, isn’t?
We were able to create a user, create a post and also we were able to expose different resources around
different things. In this step.
we updated the user JPA resource to allow us to create a post. We mapped a URI of JPA users, user Id
post and then we created the code that is needed to allow us to create a new post for the user.
And we were able to successfully create a new post.
You can try all the other options of error and try and executing it with nonexistent Id, some invalid
content and also one of the exercises you can do is add a little bit of validation around the post. So
you can have at valid annotationin here and you can have all validation added on the description field.
I’ll leave that as an exercise for you. And the other exercises you can try is to add in different kinds
of fields the user and the posts and try and see how the services work out.
Until the next video, bye-bye.